Ss/mr migration (#334)
neptune-ai/examples: utils/migration_tools/model_registry_to_runs/README.md

# Migrating from the Model Registry to Experiments

> This script allows you to copy models and model versions from the Model Registry to Experiments, within the same project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script allows you to copy models and model versions from the model registry to experiments, within the same project.
```

## Why Migrate?

> Our revamped Web App adds a host of new features to Experiments, including better grouping, and enhanced reporting capabilities. By migrating your models and model versions to Experiments, you can take advantage of these features to better organize and compare your models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our revamped web app adds a host of new features to experiments, including better grouping and enhanced reporting capabilities. By migrating your models and model versions to experiments, you can take advantage of these features to better organize and compare your models.
```

> As a part of our focus on performance this year, the `Run` API is also be highly optimized for speed. Using the `Run` object instead of `Model` or `ModelVersion` objects will allow you to take advantage of these optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a part of our focus on performance this year, we have also highly optimized the `Run` API  for speed. Using the `Run` object instead of `Model` or `ModelVersion` objects will allow you to take advantage of these optimizations.
```

> This script leverages the new *Group Tags* to organise your models and model versions in Experiments, and *tags* to create saved views separating model metadata runs from training runs. This lets you view all Models and Model Versions in the same table as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script leverages the new *Group Tags* to organize your models and model versions in experiments, and *tags* to create saved views separating model metadata runs from training runs. As a result, you can view all models and model versions in the same table:
```

> ![Organise Models in Experiments](https://neptune.ai/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/MRtoRun.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Models and model versions displayed in the Experiments tab in the Neptune app](https://neptune.ai/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/MRtoRun.png)
```

In this screenshot, _Group Tag_, _Custom Run ID_, and _ID_ correspond to the original Model ID, Model Version ID and the new Run ID respectively.

> Having all model metadata in Experiments also lets you use Experiment's native [comparisons](https://docs.neptune.ai/usage/tutorial/#compare-the-runs) and [Reports](https://docs.neptune.ai/app/reports/) to compare models and model versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having all model metadata in experiments also lets you use experiment's native [comparisons](https://docs.neptune.ai/usage/tutorial/#compare-the-runs) and [reports](https://docs.neptune.ai/app/reports/) to compare models and model versions.
```

## Prerequisites

Before using this script, make sure you have the Neptune environment variables set up. For instructions, see the [documentation](https://docs.neptune.ai/setup/setting_credentials/).

> Additionally, ensure that the project you want to copy metadata to has already been created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, ensure that you want to copy metadata to an already existing project.
```

Author: This prerequisite is not valid anymore. Will remove.

## Instructions

To use the script, follow these steps:

1. Execute `model_to_run.py`.

> 2. Enter the project name you want to copy the model metadata from, in the `WORKSPACE_NAME/PROJECT_NAME` format. Leave this prompt as black to use the `NEPTUNE_PROJECT` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the name of a project from which you want to copy the model metadata. Use the `WORKSPACE_NAME/PROJECT_NAME` format. To use the `NEPTUNE_PROJECT` environment variable, leave this prompt blank.
```

3. Enter the number of workers to use to copy the metadata. Leave blank to use all available CPUs.
4. The script will generate run logs in the same folder as `model_to_run.py`. You can modify this location by editing the `logging.basicConfig()` function.

## Note

There are a few things to keep in mind when using this script:

> - All models and model versions will be copied. It is not possible to filter them currently†.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All models and model versions will be copied. It is not possible to filter them†.
```

- Most of the namespaces from the model/model_versions will be retained in the runs, except for the following:
  - `sys` namespace:
    - The `state` field cannot be copied.
    - The `description`, `name`, and `tags` fields are copied to the `sys` namespace in the new run.
    - All other fields are copied to a new `old_sys` namespace in the new run.

> - The _Model Stage_ is currently copied to `old_sys/stage` field. Unlike the `sys/stage` field, this field cannot be updated from the Web App. If you want to be able to update the _Model Stage_ from the Web App, the script can be modified to copy the stage as _Tags_ instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The _Model Stage_ is currently copied to `old_sys/stage` field. Unlike the `sys/stage` field, this field cannot be updated from the web app. To be able to update the _Model Stage_ from the web app, modify the script to copy the stage as _Tags_ instead. 
```

Author: Phrased as _the script can be modified_ instead of _modify the script_ as we we would do the modification and not expect the user to do it from their end

- File metadata is temporarily stored in a `tmp_tmp_%Y%m%d%H%M%S` folder in the current directory. This folder is deleted after the script finishes running.
- The relative time x-axis in copied charts is based on the `sys/creation_time` of the original runs. Since this field is read-only, the relative time will be negative in the copied charts, as the logging time occurred before the creation time of the new run.
- The hash of tracked artifacts may change between the original and new runs.
- Each file copied as a `FileSet` will have its file name prefixed with the namespace where it was stored in the original run. For example, if the original run has a file named `hello_neptune.py` stored in the `source_code/files` namespace, the corresponding file in the new run will be named `source_code/files/hello_neptune.py`.

> † Support for these can be added based on feedback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
† Support for filtering models and model versions can be added based on feedback
```

Author: Will use this footnote for a few other points too, so we can leave this generic

## Post-Migration
- The source object of a run can be identified using `sys/custom_run_id`.
- The Model ID of each model and corresponding model versions is stored as a group tag in the run to allow you to group models and model versions together, as shown in the screenshot above.
- Runs made from models and model versions have the the `model` and `model_version` tags added respectively.

> - Once the migration and any sanity checks are complete, the copied Model/Model Versions can be deleted from the Model Registry to reclaim space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once the migration and any sanity checks are complete, the copied Model/Model Versions can be deleted from the model registry to reclaim space
```

> - This script can also be used a template to update your logging script to start logging model metadata to Runs instead of the Model Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This script can also be used a template to update your logging script to start logging model metadata to runs instead of the model registry.
```

## Instructions

To use the script, follow these steps:

1. Execute `model_to_run.py`.
2. Enter the name of a project from which you want to copy the model metadata. Use the `WORKSPACE_NAME/PROJECT_NAME` format. To use the `NEPTUNE_PROJECT` environment variable, leave this prompt blank.
3. Enter the number of workers to use to copy the metadata. Leave blank to use all available CPUs.
4. The script will generate run logs in the same folder as `model_to_run.py`. You can modify this location by editing the `logging.basicConfig()` function.

## Note

There are a few things to keep in mind when using this script:

- All models and model versions will be copied. Filtering is currently not available†.
- Most of the namespaces from the model/model_versions will be retained in the runs, except for the following:
  - `sys` namespace:
    - The `state` field cannot be copied.
    - The `description`, `name`, and `tags` fields are copied to the `sys` namespace in the new run.
    - All other fields are copied to a new `old_sys` namespace in the new run.

> - The _Model Stage_ is currently copied to `old_sys/stage` field. Unlike the `sys/stage` field, this field cannot be updated from the Web App. If you want to be able to update the _Model Stage_ from the Web App, the script can be modified to copy the stage as _Tags_ instead†.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The _Model Stage_ is currently copied to `old_sys/stage` field. Unlike the `sys/stage` field, this field cannot be updated from the web app. If you want to be able to update the _Model Stage_ from the web app, the script can be modified to copy the stage as _Tags_ instead†.
```

> - File metadata is temporarily stored in a `tmp_tmp_%Y%m%d%H%M%S` folder in the current directory. This folder is deleted after the script finishes running.

Reviewer: The folder name looks sus :D

Author: 🙈 Thanks for pointing

> - File metadata is temporarily stored in a `tmp_tmp_%Y%m%d%H%M%S` folder in the current directory. This folder is deleted after the script finishes running.

Author: ```suggestion
- File metadata is temporarily stored in the current directory in a `tmp_%Y%m%d%H%M%S` folder. This folder is deleted after the script finishes running.
```

- The relative time x-axis in copied charts is based on the `sys/creation_time` of the original runs. Since this field is read-only, the relative time will be negative in the copied charts, as the logging time occurred before the creation time of the new run.
- The hash of tracked artifacts may change between the original and new runs.
- Each file copied as a `FileSet` will have its file name prefixed with the namespace where it was stored in the original run. For example, if the original run has a file named `hello_neptune.py` stored in the `source_code/files` namespace, the corresponding file in the new run will be named `source_code/files/hello_neptune.py`.

† Can be added based on feedback

## Post-Migration
- The source object of a run can be identified using `sys/custom_run_id`.
- The Model ID of each model and corresponding model versions is stored as a group tag in the run to allow you to group models and model versions together, as shown in the screenshot above.
- Runs made from models and model versions have the the `model` and `model_version` tags added respectively.

> - Once the migration and any sanity checks are complete, the copied Model/Model Versions can be deleted from the model registry to reclaim space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once the migration and any sanity checks are complete, the copied Model/Model Versions can be deleted from the model registry to reclaim space.
```
